And the last video you were able to get the current position of the camera are relative to the real
world.
So in summary every time the scene you're under scene which happens at 60 frames per second you're getting
the point of view of that scene.
The point of view gives you a transform matrix the transfer matrix is what encodes the orientation and
location of the camera and columns and rows.
We extract the location and orientation and combine them to get the current position of the camera and
it's in the current position of the camera that you will be drawing.
So first delete these print statements and go to the main storyboard in the main storyboard.
Open up the assistant editor and link the drub on to The View Controller with an outlet called the IBL
that draw close the assistant editor and back to the controller in the delegate function.
You need to figure out when the drop button is being pressed.
So in Iowa.
Every time you press a button it highlights to a darker shade.
We're going to use that to our advantage by writing if draw dot is highlighted.
So if the draw is being highlighted print draw button is being pressed.
We're going to test this behavior by running the as I hold the button.
The print statement keeps getting triggered if I let go it stops printing.
This is perfect.
Now you can detect when the user is holding the gun.
So back to X code when the button is being pressed make a sphere known by writing less fear no that
is equal to C.A. with a geometry of n s c and sphere and make sure the sphere has a radius of zero point
zero or two meters.
Put the sphere in the current position of the camera view by writing sphere and know that that position
is equal to current position of camera.
This makes sense since the current position is where we are going to draw so that sphere to the scene
view by writing self does scene view thus scene a root node a child node sphere node and give the sphere
a node A color red by writing sphere node geometry.
Duff first material thought diffuse contents is equal to you like color red.
Remember that the fuse is the color that spread across the surface of the material and we're giving
the surface a color of red.
So to summarize what's going on when the renderer is about to render a scene which happens at 60 frames
per second.
The delegate function gets called when it gets called.
You're getting the current position of the camera.
And in that position if the button is being pressed the button you're putting a sphere know in that
position.
So if you keep doing that if you keep putting a sphere for every position and every scene that's being
rendered eventually you'll form a line of spheres which makes it look like you're drawing something
to test.
We're going to run the soap press draw and move the phone around and you're finally drawing in 3-D.
This is pretty cool.
Now there's a slight problem.
We need a pointer to give the user a better visual of where he is drawing.
So back to X code if the button is not being pressed.
So we would be in the else statement if the button is not highlighted let pointer is equal to see and
know where they are geometry of a sphere as well.
Geometry and sphere of radius zero point zero hundred meters placed the pointer in the current position
of the camera by writing pointer.
That position is equal to current position of camera.
This makes sense since the user is going to be drawing in the current position of the camera.
So by putting the pointer in the current position it's indicating to the user that this is where he
will be drawn which is exactly its purpose.
It's a pointer.
So the pointer to the seam view by copying miss and or place sphere and node with pointer make the point
to read as well.
By copying this.
And once again or a place for node with pointer and run the
here's the pointer in the middle and if I move around and notice the pointer keeps getting longer I
need the pointer to show up as a single dots.
So I need to delete every single part of that pointer except the newest one.
So to do that go back to X code and before adding the newest pointer to the scene we have to delete
every single other pointer.
So go through every single note that in the scene view by writing self dustings view that scene dot
root node dot innumerate child nodes make the first argument no.
And the second argument.
Leave it as what.
So this loops through every single node that's child of the scene use root node and we're going to remove
every node from its parent node by writing node that remove from parent node removing every node from
its parent node such thought we're only adding that new pointer to the scene after you run the app to
see what happens.
The app crashes because we try to remove a node on a background thread.
Anything inside this delegate functions happens in the background.
We need everything here to happen on the main thread so called dispatch queue up Main.
So main thread dot a sink and put every single line of code here inside of the dispatch.
Make this self and run the app again.
And the pointer it works fine.
It removes every all pointer and it keeps the newest one.
Now you know where to draw.
However there's a bug in fine draw.
And then let go it gets deleted.
So go to ex-cult.
What's happening is that you press the button it goes through this statements.
Everything works fine.
You're drawing.
But then if you let go of the draw button the else statement gets called and it removes every single
node from the scene views root node that includes the spheres that you're drawing.
You need to be able to distinguish between the pointer and what's being drawn.
So make the pointer a box node instead by replacing a sphere with a CNN box and give the width height
and length a dimension of zero point zero or 1 meters and make the chamfer radius half of 0.01.
So here's a trick.
Whenever the chamfer radius is one half of the measurement of all the dimensions you get a sphere.
So you're giving the illusion that the pointer is a sphere but it's actually a box now and a numeric
child node.
If D.M. and geometry is a box so if node geometry is at c and box then remove that node.
Otherwise keep it.
So now it won't remove anything he draw since those are spheres not boxes run yet and test this the
pointer works fine.
And there are it does it remove what you drew.
Now there is a much better way to differentiate between the pointer and the sphere node instead of making
this into a box.
Put this back as a sphere.
So right as science fair with I believe our radius was 0.01.
It doesn't matter and to differentiate between the point during the sphere give the pointer a name right
pointer that name is equal to pointer.
And now inside of here just right if node name is equal to a pointer then remove that note from the
parent node.
Otherwise leave the drawing.
OK.
Run the app.
If I just wait till the world origin loads and the phone for it to establish its surroundings.
And now we get to draw and everything seems to be working out fine.
In the next section we're going to make a solar system.